docs/extras/array.md, before:

---
title: Array
categories:
- Backend
- Extra
---

# Array Extra

Paginate arrays efficiently.

!!! warning WARNING
This warning may sound obvious, but I keep finding people improperly using this extra, so let me write it explicitly.

The `array` extra is efficient if you really need to paginate an array, but if the data in the array comes from some DB or other persisted storage (i.e. not some in-memory storage), then you should definitely review your code!

You should not pull the whole collection into an array (potentially wasting tons of memory), when you can pull just a single page of it by using the standard `@page, @records = pagy(your_scope)`.

And if you think that it's the only way to do what you need, then... think again. 🧐
!!!

## Synopsis

||| pagy.rb (initializer)
```ruby
require 'pagy/extras/array'
```
|||

||| Controller
```ruby
@pagy, @items = pagy_array(an_array, ...)
```
|||

## Files

- [array.rb](https://github.com/ddnexus/pagy/blob/master/lib/pagy/extras/array.rb)

## Methods

==- `pagy_array(array, vars=nil)`

This method is the same as the generic `pagy` method, but specialized for an Array. (see the [pagy doc](/docs/api/backend.md#pagy-collection-vars-nil))

==- `pagy_array_get_vars(array)`

This sub-method is the same as the `pagy_get_vars` sub-method, but it is called only by the `pagy_array` method. (see the [pagy_get_vars doc](/docs/api/backend.md#pagy-get-vars-collection-vars)).

===

Commit message:

Docs: simplify warning in pagy_array (#518)
Co-authored-by: Domizio Demichelis <dd.nexus@gmail.com>

docs/extras/array.md, after:

---
title: Array
categories:
- Backend
- Extra
---

# Array Extra

Paginate arrays efficiently.

!!!danger Bad!
```rb
def index 
    @pagy, @comments = pagy_array(Comment.all.to_a) # your code is wasting memory!
end
```
Do not use `pagy_array` with any persistent storage collection (database, elastic search, Meilisearch etc)!
!!!


!!!success Good
```rb
def index 
    @pagy, @special_items = pagy_array(array_from_memory) 
end
```
Use with collections that are already loaded in memory. (e.g. arrays of cached indices, keys of hashes, pointers, etc.).
!!!

## Synopsis

||| pagy.rb (initializer)
```ruby
require 'pagy/extras/array'
```
|||

||| Controller
```ruby
@pagy, @items = pagy_array(an_array, ...)
```
|||

## Files

- [array.rb](https://github.com/ddnexus/pagy/blob/master/lib/pagy/extras/array.rb)

## Methods

==- `pagy_array(array, vars=nil)`

This method is the same as the generic `pagy` method, but specialized for an Array. (see the [pagy doc](/docs/api/backend.md#pagy-collection-vars-nil))

==- `pagy_array_get_vars(array)`

This sub-method is the same as the `pagy_get_vars` sub-method, but it is called only by the `pagy_array` method. (see the [pagy_get_vars doc](/docs/api/backend.md#pagy-get-vars-collection-vars)).

===
