docs/extras/uikit.md, before:

---
title: UIkit
image: none
category: Frontend
---

# UIkit Extra

Add nav helpers for the UIkit [pagination component](https://getuikit.com/docs/pagination).

## Synopsis

||| pagy.rb (initializer)

```ruby
require 'pagy/extras/uikit'
```

|||

||| View

```erb
<-- Nav Helpers: -->
<%== pagy_uikit_nav(@pagy, **vars) %>
<%== pagy_uikit_nav_js(@pagy, **vars) %>
<%== pagy_uikit_combo_nav_js(@pagy, **vars) %>
```

|||

## Files

- [uikit.rb](https://github.com/ddnexus/pagy/blob/master/lib/pagy/extras/uikit.rb)

## Methods

This extra adds the above nav helpers to the `Pagy::Frontend` module. You can customize it by direct overriding in your own view
helper.

=== `pagy_uikit_nav(pagy)`

![uikit_nav](/docs/assets/images/uikit_nav.png)

This method is the same as the `pagy_nav`, but customized for UIkit.

See the [pagy_nav(pagy, **vars)](/docs/api/frontend.md#pagy-nav-pagy-vars) documentation.

=== `pagy_uikit_nav_js(pagy, **vars)`

![Warning: Bootstrap style shown above as a representative example - the responsive `pagy_uikit_nav_js` looks like the `pagy_uikit_nav` helper.](/docs/assets/images/bootstrap_nav_js.png)

It's rendered on the client, with optional responsiveness. See the [Javascript Navs](/docs/api/javascript/navs.md) documentation
for more information.

=== `pagy_uikit_combo_nav_js(pagy, **vars)`

See the [Javascript Combo Navs](/docs/api/javascript/combo-navs.md) documentation.

Here is an example:

![uikit_combo_nav_js](/docs/assets/images/uikit_combo_nav_js.png)

===

Commit message:

Docs: Simplified retype panels; added info about the interactive demo in the frontend extras

docs/extras/uikit.md, after:

---
title: UIkit
image: none
category: Frontend
---

# UIkit Extra

Add nav helpers for the UIkit [pagination component](https://getuikit.com/docs/pagination).

!!!success Try it now!

Run the interactive demo from your terminal:

```sh
pagy run demo
# or: bundle exec pagy run demo
```
...and point your browser at http://0.0.0.0:8000
!!!

## Synopsis

```ruby pagy.rb (initializer)
require 'pagy/extras/uikit'
```

```erb View
<-- Nav Helpers: -->
<%== pagy_uikit_nav(@pagy, **vars) %>
<%== pagy_uikit_nav_js(@pagy, **vars) %>
<%== pagy_uikit_combo_nav_js(@pagy, **vars) %>
```

## Files

- [uikit.rb](https://github.com/ddnexus/pagy/blob/master/lib/pagy/extras/uikit.rb)

## Methods

This extra adds the above nav helpers to the `Pagy::Frontend` module. You can customize it by direct overriding in your own view
helper.

=== `pagy_uikit_nav(pagy)`

![uikit_nav](/docs/assets/images/uikit_nav.png)

This method is the same as the `pagy_nav`, but customized for UIkit.

See the [pagy_nav(pagy, **vars)](/docs/api/frontend.md#pagy-nav-pagy-vars) documentation.

=== `pagy_uikit_nav_js(pagy, **vars)`

![Warning: Bootstrap style shown above as a representative example - the responsive `pagy_uikit_nav_js` looks like the `pagy_uikit_nav` helper.](/docs/assets/images/bootstrap_nav_js.png)

It's rendered on the client, with optional responsiveness. See the [Javascript Navs](/docs/api/javascript/navs.md) documentation
for more information.

=== `pagy_uikit_combo_nav_js(pagy, **vars)`

See the [Javascript Combo Navs](/docs/api/javascript/combo-navs.md) documentation.

Here is an example:

![uikit_combo_nav_js](/docs/assets/images/uikit_combo_nav_js.png)

===
