e2e/README.md, before:

# E2E Test Environment

Pagy provides quite a few helpers that render the pagination elements for different js-frameworks on the client side. They are
tested with the [Pagy Playground](https://ddnexus.github.io/pagy/playground/) apps and [Cypress](https://www.cypress.io).

If you you need to run the E2E tests, here are two different ways to run them.

## 1. Github Actions

Just create a PR and all the ruby and e2e tests will run on GitHub. Usually this option is fine for simple PRs that pass the ruby
tests.

**Notice**: This option is not enabled by default in Github for new contributors, however after you create a PR it will get
enabled ASAP.

## 2. Run E2E Tests On Your System

The test environment uses [bun](https://bun.sh) ([cypress still needs node ATM](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/issues/28962) )
- Install [bun](https://bun.sh/docs/installation)
- Optional for updating: install `npm-check`: `bun install -g npm-check`.
- Install modules: `bun install`

### Run the test for all the apps

You can run all the cypress tests in parallel with:

```shell
<local-pagy-dir>/e2e $ ./cy-test
```

Notice:

- The output of the parallel processes get mixed in the same log stream, however the test summaries are prefixed with the app name.
- The script will return a non-zero status if any of the test fail, and will print a brief feedback.

### Run the test for a single app

You can limit the cypress test to a specific APP:

```shell
<local-pagy-dir>/e2e $ ./cy-test repro
```

### Run the test interactively

You can also run the cypress test interactively (only one APP/file at the time) opening cypress UI:

```shell
<local-pagy-dir>/e2e $ ./cy-open demo
```

Notice: You can only run the spec file for the app that is running (e.g. `demo.cy.ts` in the example above)

---

See also [Ruby Test Environment](https://github.com/ddnexus/pagy/tree/master/test)

Commit message:

Update and reorganize modules and package.json files

e2e/README.md, after:

# E2E Test Environment

Pagy provides quite a few helpers that render the pagination elements for different js-frameworks on the client side. They are
tested with the [Pagy Playground](https://ddnexus.github.io/pagy/playground/) apps and [Cypress](https://www.cypress.io).

Notice: the `e2e` dir containing the cypress tests is also a minimalistic workspace. That is a solution needed to workaround [this cypress issue](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/issues/22273) and keep everything cypress-related in a single dir inside the project (instead of files and dirs mixed with the main project). 
    
## Testing

You have two different ways to run the tests:

### 1. Github Actions

Just create a PR and all the ruby and e2e tests will run on GitHub. Usually this option is fine for simple PRs that pass the ruby
tests.

**Notice**: This option is not enabled by default in Github for new contributors, however after you create a PR it will get
enabled ASAP.

### 2. Run E2E Tests On Your System

The test environment uses [bun](https://bun.sh) ([but cypress still needs node ATM](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/issues/28962) )
- Install [bun](https://bun.sh/docs/installation)
- Optional for updating package: install `npm-check`: `bun install -g npm-check`
- Install modules: `bun install`

#### Run the test for all the apps

You can run all the cypress tests in parallel with:

```shell
<local-pagy-dir>/e2e $ ./cy-test
```

Notice:

- The output of the parallel processes get mixed in the same log stream, however the test summaries are prefixed with the app name.
- The script will return a non-zero status if any of the test fail, and will print a brief feedback.

#### Run the test for a single app

You can limit the cypress test to a specific APP:

```shell
<local-pagy-dir>/e2e $ ./cy-test repro
```

#### Run the test interactively

You can also run the cypress test interactively (only one APP/file at the time) opening cypress UI:

```shell
<local-pagy-dir>/e2e $ ./cy-open demo
```

Notice: You can only run the spec file for the app that is running (e.g. `demo.cy.ts` in the example above)

---

See also [Ruby Test Environment](https://github.com/ddnexus/pagy/tree/master/test)
