docs/toolbox/paginators.md, before:

---
label: pagy 💚 Paginators
icon: database
order: 90
categories:
  - Paginators
---

#

##  <span style="font-size: .65em; vertical-align: middle">💚</span> Paginators

---

### `pagy` method

The `pagy` method starts every pagination. 

Include the `Pagy::Method` where you are going to use it _(usually in ApplicationContoller)_:

```ruby
include Pagy::Method
```
You can use it to paginate ANY collection, with ANY technique:

```ruby
@pagy, @records = pagy(:offset, collection, **options)
@pagy, @records = pagy(:keyset, set, **options)
@pagy, @records = pagy(...)
```
- `:offset`, `:keyset`, etc. are symbols identifying the [paginator](#paginators) to use, i.e. the internal method handling that type of pagination.
- `@pagy` is the pagination istance. It provides methods for every UI components and helpers to use in your code.
- `@records` are the records belonging to the requested page

### Paginators

The `paginators` are internal methods that provide different type of pagination for different types of collections, with a common API. They are passed to the `pagy` method by their symbolic name. (e.g, `:offset`, `:keyset`, `countless`, etc.)

!!! warning Avoid instantiating Pagy classes directly

Instantiate implementing classes only if the documentation explicitly suggests it.
!!!

!!!success Paginators and classes are autoloaded only if used!

Unused code consumes no memory.
!!!

[:icon-list-ordered: :offset](paginators/offset.md)<br/>
[:icon-list-ordered: :countless](paginators/countless.md)<br/>
[:icon-list-ordered: :keynav_js](paginators/keynav_js)<br/>
[:icon-infinity: :keyset](paginators/keyset.md)<br/>
[:icon-calendar: :calendar](paginators/calendar.md)<br/>
[:icon-search: :elasticsearch_rails](paginators/elasticsearch_rails.md)<br/>
[:icon-search: :meilisearch](paginators/meilisearch.md)<br/>
[:icon-search: :searchkick](paginators/searchkick.md)<br/>

==- Common Options

!!! Common Options for Paginators

Individual paginators may offer additional options, which are documented with the paginator itself.
!!!

- `limit: 10`
  - Specifies the number of items per page (default: `20`)
- `max_pages: 500`
  - Restricts pagination to only `:max_pages`. _(Ignored by `Pagy::Calendar::*` unit instances)_
- `page: 3`
  - Set it only to force the current `:page`. _(It is set automatically from the request query hash)_.
- `requestable_limit: 1_000`
  - Allow the client to set the `:limit` in the `request` query, up to `1_000` in the example
- `request: custom_request`
  - **Set this hash only in non-rack environments** or when instructed by the docs. _(It is set automatically from the request)_. For example:
    ```ruby
    custom_request =  { base_url: 'http://www.example.com',
                        path:     '/path',
                        queried:  { 'param1' => 1234 }, # The string-keyed hash queried from the request
                        cookie:   'xyz' }               # The 'pagy' cookie, only for keynav  
    ```

==- Common URL Options

!!! Common URL options for all [paginators](#paginators) and `@pagy` [methods](methods#methods)

These options control give you full control over the URL composition.
!!!

- `absolute: true`
  - Makes the URL absolute.
- `fragment: '#...'`
  - URL fragment string. _(It must include the leding `"#"`!_)
- `jsonapi: true`
  - Enables JSON:API-compliant URLs, with nested query string (e.g., `?page[number]=2&page[size]=100`)
- `limit_key: 'custom_limit'`
  - Set it to change the key string used for the `:limit` in URLs (default `'limit'`).
- `page_key: 'custom_page'`
  - Set it to change the key string used for the `:page` in URLs (default `'page'`).
- `path: '/custom_path'`
  - Overrides the request path in pagination URLs. Use the path only (not the absolute URL). _(see [Override the request path](../guides/how-to#paginate-multiple-independent-collections))_
- `querify: tweak`
  - Set it to a `Lambda` to directly edit the passed string-keyed query hash itself. Its result is ignored.
    ```ruby
    tweak = ->(q) { q.except!('not_useful').merge!('custom' => 'useful') }
    ```

==- Common Readers

!!! Common Readers for Paginators

Individual paginators may offer additional readers, which are documented with the paginator itself.
!!!

- `page`
  - The current page
- `limit`
  - The items per page
- `options`
  - The options of the object
- `next`
  - The next page

==- Common Exceptions

!!! Common Exceptions for Paginators

Individual paginators may raise specific exceptions, which are documented with the paginator itself.
!!!
- `Pagy::OptionError`
  - A subclass of `ArgumentError` that offers information to rescue invalid options passed to the constructor.
  - For example: `rescue Pagy::OptionError => e`
    - `e.pagy` the pagy object
    - `e.option` the offending option symbol (e.g. `:page`)
    - `e.value` the value of the offending option (e.g. `-3`)

==- Troubleshooting

##### Records may repeat in different pages (or sometimes be missing)

<br/>

!!!danger Don't Paginate Unordered PostgreSQL Collections!

```rb
@pagy, @records = pagy(:offset, unordered)

# behind the scenes, pagy selects the page of records with: 
unordered.offset(pagy.offset).limit(pagy.limit)
```

!!! warning

Citation: [PostgreSQL Documentation](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/16/queries-limit.html#:~:text=When%20using%20LIMIT,ORDER%20BY)

When using LIMIT, always include an ORDER BY clause to constrain the result rows into a unique order. Otherwise, the subset of rows retrieved may be unpredictable.

!!!

!!! success Ensure the PostgreSQL collection is ordered!

```rb
# Results will be consistent and predictable with #order
ordered         = unordered.order(:id)
@pagy, @records = pagy_offset(ordered)
```

!!!

===

Commit message:

Rename :requested_limit to :max_limit

docs/toolbox/paginators.md, after:

---
label: pagy 💚 Paginators
icon: database
order: 90
categories:
  - Paginators
---

#

##  <span style="font-size: .65em; vertical-align: middle">💚</span> Paginators

---

### `pagy` method

The `pagy` method starts every pagination. 

Include the `Pagy::Method` where you are going to use it _(usually in ApplicationContoller)_:

```ruby
include Pagy::Method
```
You can use it to paginate ANY collection, with ANY technique:

```ruby
@pagy, @records = pagy(:offset, collection, **options)
@pagy, @records = pagy(:keyset, set, **options)
@pagy, @records = pagy(...)
```
- `:offset`, `:keyset`, etc. are symbols identifying the [paginator](#paginators) to use, i.e. the internal method handling that type of pagination.
- `@pagy` is the pagination istance. It provides methods for every UI components and helpers to use in your code.
- `@records` are the records belonging to the requested page

### Paginators

The `paginators` are internal methods that provide different type of pagination for different types of collections, with a common API. They are passed to the `pagy` method by their symbolic name. (e.g, `:offset`, `:keyset`, `countless`, etc.)

!!! warning Avoid instantiating Pagy classes directly

Instantiate implementing classes only if the documentation explicitly suggests it.
!!!

!!!success Paginators and classes are autoloaded only if used!

Unused code consumes no memory.
!!!

[:icon-list-ordered: :offset](paginators/offset.md)<br/>
[:icon-list-ordered: :countless](paginators/countless.md)<br/>
[:icon-list-ordered: :keynav_js](paginators/keynav_js)<br/>
[:icon-infinity: :keyset](paginators/keyset.md)<br/>
[:icon-calendar: :calendar](paginators/calendar.md)<br/>
[:icon-search: :elasticsearch_rails](paginators/elasticsearch_rails.md)<br/>
[:icon-search: :meilisearch](paginators/meilisearch.md)<br/>
[:icon-search: :searchkick](paginators/searchkick.md)<br/>

==- Common Options

!!! Common Options for Paginators

Individual paginators may offer additional options, which are documented with the paginator itself.
!!!

- `limit: 10`
  - Specifies the number of items per page (default: `20`)
- `max_pages: 500`
  - Restricts pagination to only `:max_pages`. _(Ignored by `Pagy::Calendar::*` unit instances)_
- `page: 3`
  - Set it only to force the current `:page`. _(It is set automatically from the request query hash)_.
- `max_limit: 1_000`
  - Allow the client to set the `:limit` in the `request` query, up to `1_000` in the example. If the requested limit is higher it will be capped to `max_limit`.
- `request: custom_request`
  - **Set this hash only in non-rack environments** or when instructed by the docs. _(It is set automatically from the request)_. For example:
    ```ruby
    custom_request =  { base_url: 'http://www.example.com',
                        path:     '/path',
                        queried:  { 'param1' => 1234 }, # The string-keyed hash queried from the request
                        cookie:   'xyz' }               # The 'pagy' cookie, only for keynav  
    ```

==- Common URL Options

!!! Common URL options for all [paginators](#paginators) and `@pagy` [methods](methods#methods)

These options control give you full control over the URL composition.
!!!

- `absolute: true`
  - Makes the URL absolute.
- `fragment: '#...'`
  - URL fragment string. _(It must include the leding `"#"`!_)
- `jsonapi: true`
  - Enables JSON:API-compliant URLs, with nested query string (e.g., `?page[number]=2&page[size]=100`)
- `limit_key: 'custom_limit'`
  - Set it to change the key string used for the `:limit` in URLs (default `'limit'`).
- `page_key: 'custom_page'`
  - Set it to change the key string used for the `:page` in URLs (default `'page'`).
- `path: '/custom_path'`
  - Overrides the request path in pagination URLs. Use the path only (not the absolute URL). _(see [Override the request path](../guides/how-to#paginate-multiple-independent-collections))_
- `querify: tweak`
  - Set it to a `Lambda` to directly edit the passed string-keyed query hash itself. Its result is ignored.
    ```ruby
    tweak = ->(q) { q.except!('not_useful').merge!('custom' => 'useful') }
    ```

==- Common Readers

!!! Common Readers for Paginators

Individual paginators may offer additional readers, which are documented with the paginator itself.
!!!

- `page`
  - The current page
- `limit`
  - The items per page
- `options`
  - The options of the object
- `next`
  - The next page

==- Common Exceptions

!!! Common Exceptions for Paginators

Individual paginators may raise specific exceptions, which are documented with the paginator itself.
!!!
- `Pagy::OptionError`
  - A subclass of `ArgumentError` that offers information to rescue invalid options passed to the constructor.
  - For example: `rescue Pagy::OptionError => e`
    - `e.pagy` the pagy object
    - `e.option` the offending option symbol (e.g. `:page`)
    - `e.value` the value of the offending option (e.g. `-3`)

==- Troubleshooting

##### Records may repeat in different pages (or sometimes be missing)

<br/>

!!!danger Don't Paginate Unordered PostgreSQL Collections!

```rb
@pagy, @records = pagy(:offset, unordered)

# behind the scenes, pagy selects the page of records with: 
unordered.offset(pagy.offset).limit(pagy.limit)
```

!!! warning

Citation: [PostgreSQL Documentation](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/16/queries-limit.html#:~:text=When%20using%20LIMIT,ORDER%20BY)

When using LIMIT, always include an ORDER BY clause to constrain the result rows into a unique order. Otherwise, the subset of rows retrieved may be unpredictable.

!!!

!!! success Ensure the PostgreSQL collection is ordered!

```rb
# Results will be consistent and predictable with #order
ordered         = unordered.order(:id)
@pagy, @records = pagy_offset(ordered)
```

!!!

===
