docs/api/calendar.md, before:

---
title: Pagy::Calendar
---
# Pagy::Calendar

This is a `Pagy` subclass that provides pagination filtering by time: year, quarter, month, week, day (and supports your own [custom time units](#custom-units)).

It requires the `activesupport` gem (which id you are using Rails, is already loaded by your app).

**Notice**: The `Pagy::Calendar::*` subclasses provide support for the [calendar extra](../extras/calendar.md) and are meant to be used with standard, non-calendar Pagy classes and never alone (because they could generate a very high number of items per page). The class APIs are documented here, however you should not need to use them directly because they are required and used internally by the extra.

## Overview

The pagy `Pagy::Calendar::*` instances split a time period into pages of equal time unit. For example: with `Pagy::Calendar::Year` you will have one page per each different calendar year so each page can be filtered to contain all the records that fall into the specific page/year. The `Pagy::Calendar::Quarter`, `Pagy::Calendar::Month`, `Pagy::Calendar::Week` and `Pagy::Calendar::Day` classes have the same functions for their respective time units. 

Each page is also conveniently labeled in the navigation bar with the specific `Time` period it refers to.

**IMPORTANT**: This classes respects the natural calendar units, not the duration of a unit. If you paginate by year, each page will be a calendar year starting January 1st and ending December 31st, not a period starting and ending at two arbitrary dates one year apart. All the classes follow the same principle. Time units with no records are displayed as empty pages.

## Variables

Being subclasses of `Pagy`, the `Pagy::Calendar::*` classes share most of their superclass infrastructure and variables, however they use a completely different way to paginate (e.g.: no `:count` nor `:items` variables) and they have a few extra core variables.

The following variables are specific to `Pagy::Calendar::*` instances: 

| Variable      | Description                                                                                               | Default                               |
|:--------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:--------------------------------------|
| `:period`     | Required two items Array with the calendar starting and ending local `Time`/`TimeWithZone`` objects       | `nil`                                 |
| `:order`      | Order of pagination: it can be`:asc` or `:desc`                                                           | `:asc`                                |
| `:format`     | String containing the `strftime` extendable format used for labelling (each subclass has its own default) |                                       |
| `:first_weekday` | The symbol representing the first day of the week (used only by the `Pagy::Calendar::Week` class)         | `:sunday` in 5.* `:monday` from `6.0` |

**Notice**: For the `Pagy::Calendar::Quarter` the `:format` variable can contain a non-standard `%q` format which is substituted with the quarter (1-4).

## DEFAULT variables

The calendar defaults are not part of the `Pagy::DEFAULT` variables. Each subclass has its own `Pagy::Calendar::*::DEFAULT` variable hash that you can set independently. See the [pagy.rb](https://github.com/ddnexus/pagy/blob/master/lib/config/pagy.rb) configuration file for details. 

## Attribute Readers

| Reader  | Description                                                       |
|:--------|:------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `from`  | The local `Time`/`TimeWithZone`` of the start of the current page |
| `to`    | The local `Time`/`TimeWithZone`` of the end of the current page   |
| `order` | The `:order` variable                                             |

### About from and to objects

- The `from` is the beginning of the current time unit. Notice that for the first page it falls BEFORE the starting of the `:period`.
- The `to` is the beginning of the next time unit. Notice that for the last page it falls AFTER the ending of the `:period`. 

The cases for first and last pages have no effect when you use the `from`/`to` as a collection filter, since the collection is already filtered by the `:period` so there are no records outside it.

### Time conversions

This classes can use the recommended `ActiveSupport::TimeWithZone` class or the ruby `Time` class for all their time calculations. 

Since they are meant to be used in the UI, they use the user/server local time in order to make sense for the UI. For that reason their input (the `:period` variable) and output (the `from` and `to` accessors) are always local time.

If you use `ActiveRecord`, your app should set the `Time.zone` for your user or your server. Then you can convert an UTC time from the storage to a local `Time`/`TimeWithZone`` object for the calendar very easily with:

```ruby
utc_time.in_time_zone
```

You can also convert from local to UTC time with `local_time.utc`, however, when you use it as an argument in a scope, `ActiveRecord` converts it for you.

## Files

- [calendar.rb](https://github.com/ddnexus/pagy/blob/master/lib/pagy/calendar.rb)
- [calendar units](https://github.com/ddnexus/pagy/blob/master/lib/pagy/calendar)

## Methods

### label(opts = {})

This method uses the `:format` variable to generate the current page label with the specific `Time` period it refers to. It accepts an optional `:format` keyword argument for overriding.

### label_for(page, opts = {})

This method takes a page number argument (`Integer` or `String`) and uses the `:format` variable to generate its label with the specific `Time` period it refers to. It accepts an optional `:format` keyword argument for overriding.

## Custom units

You can define your own custom unit of any time length. For example you may want to add a unit of 2 months (i.e. a "bimester" unit), which should define a `Pagy::Calendar::Bimester` class. 

In order to allow its full integration, you should also insert your `:bimester` unit symbol in the `Pagy::Calendar::UNITS` list, between `:quarter` and `:month`, which will keep the list in desc order of duration. 

You can also implement your own custom substitution formats for your custom units, by overriding the `label_for(page, opts)`.

Commit message:

Final changes:
- Added DST tests
- Used Date.beginning_of_week to set the first weekday
- Updated files, doc and tests

docs/api/calendar.md, after:

---
title: Pagy::Calendar
---
# Pagy::Calendar

This is a `Pagy` subclass that provides pagination filtering by time: year, quarter, month, week, day (and supports your own [custom time units](#custom-units)).

**Notice**: The `Pagy::Calendar::*` subclasses provide support for the [calendar extra](../extras/calendar.md) and are meant to be used with standard, non-calendar Pagy classes and never alone (because they could generate a very high number of items per page). The class APIs are documented here, however you should not need to use them directly because they are required and used internally by the extra.

## Overview

The pagy `Pagy::Calendar::*` instances split a time period into pages of equal time unit. For example: with `Pagy::Calendar::Year` you will have one page per each different calendar year so each page can be filtered to contain all the records that fall into the specific page/year. The `Pagy::Calendar::Quarter`, `Pagy::Calendar::Month`, `Pagy::Calendar::Week` and `Pagy::Calendar::Day` classes have the same functions for their respective time units. 

Each page is also conveniently labeled in the navigation bar with the specific `Time` period it refers to.

**IMPORTANT**: This classes respects the natural calendar units, not the duration of a unit. If you paginate by year, each page will be a calendar year starting January 1st and ending December 31st, not a period starting and ending at two arbitrary dates one year apart. All the classes follow the same principle. Time units with no records are displayed as empty pages.

## Variables

Being subclasses of `Pagy`, the `Pagy::Calendar::*` classes share most of their superclass infrastructure and variables, however they use a completely different way to paginate (e.g.: no `:count` nor `:items` variables) and they have a few extra core variables.

The following variables are specific to `Pagy::Calendar::*` instances: 

| Variable      | Description                                                                                               | Default                               |
|:--------------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:--------------------------------------|
| `:period`     | Required two items Array with the calendar starting and ending local `Time`/`TimeWithZone` objects        | `nil`                                 |
| `:order`      | Order of pagination: it can be`:asc` or `:desc`                                                           | `:asc`                                |
| `:format`     | String containing the `strftime` extendable format used for labelling (each subclass has its own default) |                                       |

**Notice**: For the `Pagy::Calendar::Quarter` the `:format` variable can contain a non-standard `%q` format which is substituted with the quarter (1-4).

## DEFAULT variables

The calendar defaults are not part of the `Pagy::DEFAULT` variables. Each subclass has its own `Pagy::Calendar::*::DEFAULT` variable hash that you can set independently. See the [pagy.rb](https://github.com/ddnexus/pagy/blob/master/lib/config/pagy.rb) configuration file for details. 

## Attribute Readers

| Reader  | Description                                                      |
|:--------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------|
| `from`  | The local `Time`/`TimeWithZone` of the start of the current page |
| `to`    | The local `Time`/`TimeWithZone` of the end of the current page   |
| `order` | The `:order` variable                                            |

### About from and to objects

- The `from` is the beginning of the current time unit. Notice that for the first page it falls BEFORE the starting of the `:period`.
- The `to` is the beginning of the next time unit. Notice that for the last page it falls AFTER the ending of the `:period`. 

The cases for first and last pages have no effect when you use the `from`/`to` as a collection filter, since the collection is already filtered by the `:period` so there are no records outside it.

### Time conversions

This classes can use the recommended `ActiveSupport::TimeWithZone` class or the ruby `Time` class for all their time calculations. 

Since they are meant to be used in the UI, they use the user/server local time in order to make sense for the UI. For that reason their input (the `:period` variable) and output (the `from` and `to` accessors) are always local time.

If you use `ActiveRecord`, your app should set the `Time.zone` for your user or your server. Then you can convert an UTC time from the storage to a local `Time`/`TimeWithZone` object for the calendar very easily with:

```ruby
utc_time.in_time_zone
```

You can also convert from local to UTC time with `local_time.utc`, however, when you use it as an argument in a scope, `ActiveRecord` converts it for you.

### First weekday

Set the `Date.beginning_of_week` toto the symbol of the first day of the week (e.g. `Date.beginning_of_week = :sunday`). Notice the default is `:monday` consistently with the ISO-8601 standard (and Rails).

## Files

- [calendar.rb](https://github.com/ddnexus/pagy/blob/master/lib/pagy/calendar.rb)
- [calendar units](https://github.com/ddnexus/pagy/blob/master/lib/pagy/calendar)

## Methods

### label(opts = {})

This method uses the `:format` variable to generate the current page label with the specific `Time`/`TimeWithZone` period it refers to. It accepts an optional `:format` keyword argument for overriding.

### label_for(page, opts = {})

This method takes a page number argument (`Integer` or `String`) and uses the `:format` variable to generate its label with the specific `Time` period it refers to. It accepts an optional `:format` keyword argument for overriding.

## Custom units

You can define your own custom unit of any time length. For example you may want to add a unit of 2 months (i.e. a "bimester" unit), which should define a `Pagy::Calendar::Bimester` class. 

In order to allow its full integration, you should also insert your `:bimester` unit symbol in the `Pagy::Calendar::UNITS` list, between `:quarter` and `:month`, which will keep the list in desc order of duration. 

You can also implement your own custom substitution formats for your custom units, by overriding the `label_for(page, opts)`.
