docs/api/console.md, before:

---
title: Pagy::Console
categories: 
- Module
---

# Pagy::Console

Use pagy in the irb/rails console even without any app nor configuration.

Standard pagination requires controller, model, view and request to work, however you don't have to satisfy all that requirements in order to get any helper working in the irb/rails console.

You can try any pagy feature right away:

```ruby
require 'pagy/console'
include Pagy::Console
pagy_extras :array, :metadata, ...

### then you can use it like inside an app
pagy, items = pagy_array((1..1000).to_a, page: 3)
pagy_navs(pagy)
=> "<nav class=\"pagy-nav pagination\" role=\"navigation\" aria-label=\"pager\"><span class=\"page prev\"><a href=\"http://www.example.com/subdir?page=2&items=20\"   rel=\"prev\" aria-label=\"previous\">&lsaquo;&nbsp;Prev</a></span> <span class=\"page\"><a href=\"http://www.example.com/subdir?page=1&items=20\"   >1</a></span> <span class=\"page\"><a href=\"http://www.example.com/subdir?page=2&items=20\"   rel=\"prev\" >2</a></span> <span class=\"page active\">3</span> <span class=\"page\"><a href=\"http://www.example.com/subdir?page=4&items=20\"   rel=\"next\" >4</a></span> <span class=\"page\"><a href=\"http://www.example.com/subdir?page=5&items=20\"   >5</a></span> <span class=\"page\"><a href=\"http://www.example.com/subdir?page=6&items=20\"   >6</a></span> <span class=\"page\"><a href=\"http://www.example.com/subdir?page=7&items=20\"   >7</a></span> <span class=\"page gap\">&hellip;</span> <span class=\"page\"><a href=\"http://www.example.com/subdir?page=50&items=20\"   >50</a></span> <span class=\"page next\"><a href=\"http://www.example.com/subdir?page=4&items=20\"   rel=\"next\" aria-label=\"next\">Next&nbsp;&rsaquo;</a></span></nav>"

pagy_metadata(pagy)
=>
{:scaffold_url=>"http://www.example.com/subdir?page=__pagy_page__",
 :first_url=>"http://www.example.com/subdir?page=1",
 :prev_url=>"http://www.example.com/subdir?page=2",
 :page_url=>"http://www.example.com/subdir?page=3",
 :next_url=>"http://www.example.com/subdir?page=4",
 :last_url=>"http://www.example.com/subdir?page=50",
 :count=>1000,
 :page=>3,
 :items=>20,
 :vars=>
  {:page=>3,
   :items=>20,
   :outset=>0,
   :size=>[1, 4, 4, 1],
...
```

## Pagy::Console module

The pagy console uses the [standalone extra](/docs/extras/standalone.md) and sets the `Pagy::DEFAULT[:url]` variable default to `"http://www.example.com/subdir"` in order to activate the standalone mode.

Include the module in your console window in order to include also the `Pagy::Backend` and `Pagy::Frontend` modules.

==- `pagy_extras(*extras)`

Simple utility method to save some typing in the console. It will require the extras arguments. For example:

```ruby
pagy_extras :array, :bootstrap, :support, :headers, ...
```

You will be able to use any frontend or backend method implemented by pagy and the required extras right away.

===

Commit message:

docs: add docs to fix issue 481
Fix for https://github.com/ddnexus/pagy/issues/481

What's the problem?

There seems to be some confusion on Pagy::Console's use:

* can we use it with `rails console`?

Well, if you really need to, you can.

docs/api/console.md, after:

---
title: Pagy::Console
categories: 
- Module
---

# Pagy::Console

Allows you to test Pagy in an irb with an environment stubbed for you:

<details>

Standard pagination requires controller, model, view and request to work. `Pagy::Console` stubs all of that for you, automatically. 

</details>

</br>

+++ irb
```ruby
require 'pagy/console'
include Pagy::Console
pagy_extras :array, :metadata, ...

### then you can use it like inside an app
pagy, items = pagy_array((1..1000).to_a, page: 3)
pagy_navs(pagy)
=> "<nav class=\"pagy-nav pagination\" role=\"navigation\" aria-label=\"pager\"><span class=\"page prev\"><a href=\"http://www.example.com/subdir?page=2&items=20\"   rel=\"prev\" aria-label=\"previous\">&lsaquo;&nbsp;Prev</a></span> <span class=\"page\"><a href=\"http://www.example.com/subdir?page=1&items=20\"   >1</a></span> <span class=\"page\"><a href=\"http://www.example.com/subdir?page=2&items=20\"   rel=\"prev\" >2</a></span> <span class=\"page active\">3</span> <span class=\"page\"><a href=\"http://www.example.com/subdir?page=4&items=20\"   rel=\"next\" >4</a></span> <span class=\"page\"><a href=\"http://www.example.com/subdir?page=5&items=20\"   >5</a></span> <span class=\"page\"><a href=\"http://www.example.com/subdir?page=6&items=20\"   >6</a></span> <span class=\"page\"><a href=\"http://www.example.com/subdir?page=7&items=20\"   >7</a></span> <span class=\"page gap\">&hellip;</span> <span class=\"page\"><a href=\"http://www.example.com/subdir?page=50&items=20\"   >50</a></span> <span class=\"page next\"><a href=\"http://www.example.com/subdir?page=4&items=20\"   rel=\"next\" aria-label=\"next\">Next&nbsp;&rsaquo;</a></span></nav>"

pagy_metadata(pagy)
=>
{:scaffold_url=>"http://www.example.com/subdir?page=__pagy_page__",
 :first_url=>"http://www.example.com/subdir?page=1",
 :prev_url=>"http://www.example.com/subdir?page=2",
 :page_url=>"http://www.example.com/subdir?page=3",
 :next_url=>"http://www.example.com/subdir?page=4",
 :last_url=>"http://www.example.com/subdir?page=50",
 :count=>1000,
 :page=>3,
 :items=>20,
 :vars=>
  {:page=>3,
   :items=>20,
   :outset=>0,
   :size=>[1, 4, 4, 1],
...
```
+++ rails console

!!!warning Warning

Avoid using `rails console` with `Pagy::Console`.

Use `irb` instead. However, if you need `rails console` please ensure you do not freeze the `Pagy::DEFAULT` hash, in your `pagy.rb` config file, otherwise you'll receive a "can't modify frozen Hash" exception:

```rb
# Pagy::DEFAULT.freeze  ## temporarily comment out this line
```
!!!

Now follow the instructions in the irb tab.

+++

## Pagy::Console module

The pagy console uses the [standalone extra](/docs/extras/standalone.md) and sets the `Pagy::DEFAULT[:url]` variable default to `"http://www.example.com/subdir"` in order to activate the standalone mode.

Include the module in your console window in order to include also the `Pagy::Backend` and `Pagy::Frontend` modules.

==- `pagy_extras(*extras)`

Simple utility method to save some typing in the console. It will require the extras arguments. For example:

```ruby
pagy_extras :array, :bootstrap, :support, :headers, ...
```

You will be able to use any frontend or backend method implemented by pagy and the required extras right away.

===
