---
title: Pagy::I18n
categories:
- Feature
- Module
---

Use the `i18n` gem instead of the faster pagy-i18n implementation.

!!!primary 
The [pagy_t](frontend/#pagy-t-key-vars) `translation` method is ~18x faster and uses ~10x less memory than the standard `i18n` gem!

See [i18n extra](/docs/extras/i18n.md) if you need to use the slower standard `i18n` gem instead.
!!!

### Dictionaries/locales

Pagy provides many ready-to-use dictionaries for different locales/languages usable with single or multi languages apps.

All the pagy strings are are stored in the dictionary files of its [locales](https://github.com/ddnexus/pagy/blob/master/lib/locales), ready to be customized and/or used with or without the `I18n` gem. The files follow the same structure of the standard locale files for the `i18n` gem.

!!!success PRs Welcome!
If you are using pagy with some language missing from the [locales](https://github.com/ddnexus/pagy/blob/master/lib/locales), please, [submit your translation](https://github.com/ddnexus/pagy/pulls)!
!!!

## Configuration

!!!success Configuration Not Required for: `en` / `i18n extra`
If your app uses only the default `en` language or if you use the [i18n extra](/docs/extras/i18n.md) you don't need to configure anything for this module.
!!!


If you need to load different built-in locales, and/or custom dictionary files or even non built-in language and pluralization, you can do it all by passing a few arguments to the `Pagy::I18n.load` method.

### Synopsis

||| pagy.rb (initializer)
```ruby
# load the "de" built-in locale:
Pagy::I18n.load(locale: 'de')

# load the "de" locale defined in the custom file at :filepath:
Pagy::I18n.load(locale: 'de', filepath: 'path/to/pagy-de.yml')

# load the "de", "en" and "es" built-in locales:
# the first :locale will be used also as the default locale
Pagy::I18n.load({ locale: 'de' },
                { locale: 'en' },
                { locale: 'es' })

# load the "en" built-in locale, a custom "es" locale, and a totally custom locale complete with the :pluralize proc:
Pagy::I18n.load({ locale: 'en' },
                { locale: 'es',
                  filepath: 'path/to/pagy-es.yml' },
                { locale:    'xyz',  # not built-in
                  filepath:  'path/to/pagy-xyz.yml',
                  pluralize: lambda{ |count| ... } })
```
|||

!!!warning Use one load statement
Use only one load statement or you will get a FrozenError exception
!!!

!!!primary Customize only when required
You should use a custom `:pluralize` proc only for pluralization types not included in the built-in pluralization rules (stored in the `Pagy::I18n::P11n::RULE` hash).
!!!

The `:pluralize` proc should receive the `count` as a single argument and should return the plural type string (e.g. something like `'one'` or `'other'`, depending on the passed count).

## Setting the request locale in multi-language apps

When you configure multiple locales (i.e. this does not apply to single locale apps), you must also set the locale at each request. You usually do that in the application controller, by checking the `:locale` param. For example, in a rails app you should do something like:

||| Controller
```ruby
before_action { @pagy_locale = params[:locale] }
```
|||

If the `@pagy_locale` is `nil` or missing pagy will serve the first locale you set in the configuration.

## Adding the model translations

If you use the `pagy_info` OR `pagy_items_selector_js` AND you also want to use the specific model names instead of the generic "items" string, THEN you may need to add entries for the models in the pagy dictionary files. For example:

```yaml
en:
  pagy:
    ...

  # added models strings
  activerecord:
    models:
      product:
        one: Product
        other: Products
      ...
```

_(See also the [pagy_info method](frontend/#pagy-info-pagy-pagy-id-item-name-i18n-key) and [How to customize the item name](/docs/how-to.md#customize-the-item-name))_
