docs/api/javascript.md, before:

---
title: Javascript
---

# Javascript

## Overview

A few helpers use javascript, and they are clearly recognizable by the `js` suffix:

- `pagy*_nav_js`
- `pagy*_combo_nav_js`
- `pagy_items_selector_js`

If you use any of them you should follow this documentation, if not, consider that Javascript is not used anywhere else, so you can skip this.

### Basic principle

All the `pagy*_js` helpers produce/render their component on the client side. The helper methods serve just a minimal HTML tag and a `JSON` tag that gets into the view. The javascript in the [pagy.js](https://github.com/ddnexus/pagy/blob/master/lib/javascripts/pagy.js) file takes care to read the data embedded in the `ISON` tag and make it work in the browser.

## Usage

Load the [pagy.js](https://github.com/ddnexus/pagy/blob/master/lib/javascripts/pagy.js) file, and run `Pagy.init()` on window-load and eventually on [AJAX-load](#using-ajax).

**CAVEATS**
- If you override any `*_js` helper, ensure to override/enforce the relative javascript function, even with a simple copy and paste. If the relation between the helper and the function changes in a next release (e.g. arguments, naming, etc.), your app will still work with your own overriding even without the need to update it.
- See also [Preventing crawlers to follow look-alike links](../how-to.md#preventing-crawlers-to-follow-look-alike-links)

### Add the oj gem

Although it's not a requirement, if you use any `*_nav_js` helper, you should consider adding the `gem 'oj'` to your Gemfile. When available, Pagy will automatically use it to boost the performance. (Notice: It does nothing for normal, non-js helpers.)

### In rails apps

#### With the asset pipeline

If your app uses the sprocket asset-pipeline, add the assets-path in the `pagy.rb` initializer:

```ruby
Rails.application.config.assets.paths << Pagy.root.join('javascripts')
```

Add the pagy javascript to the `application.js`:

```js
//= require pagy
```

Add an event listener for turbolinks:

```js
window.addEventListener("turbolinks:load", Pagy.init);
```

or a generic one if your app doesn't use turbolinks:
```js
window.addEventListener("load", Pagy.init);
```

#### With Webpacker

If your app uses Webpacker, ensure that the webpacker `erb` loader is installed:

```sh
bundle exec rails webpacker:install:erb
```

Then create a `pagy.js.erb` in order to render the content of `pagy.js` and add the event listener into it:

```erb
<%= Pagy.root.join('javascripts', 'pagy.js').read %>
window.addEventListener("load", Pagy.init)
```

and import it in `app/javascript/application.js`:

```js
import '../src/javascripts/pagy.js.erb'
```

**Notice**:

- You may want to use `turbolinks:load` if your app uses turbolinks despite webpacker
- or you may want just `export { Pagy }` from the `pagy.js.erb` file and import and use it somewhere else.
- You may want to expose the `Pagy` namespace, if you need it available elsewhere (e.g. in js.erb templates):
    ```js
    global.Pagy = Pagy
    ```

### In non-rails apps

Ensure the `pagy/extras/javascripts/pagy.js` script gets served with the page.

Add an event listener like:

```js
window.addEventListener('load', Pagy.init);
```

or execute the `Pagy.init()` using jQuery:

```js
$( window ).load(function() {
  Pagy.init()
});
```

# Javascript Navs

The following `pagy*_nav_js` helpers:

- `pagy_nav_js`
- `pagy_bootstrap_nav_js`
- `pagy_bulma_nav_js`
- `pagy_foundation_nav_js`
- `pagy_materialize_nav_js`
- `pagy_semantic_nav_js`

look like a normal `pagy*_nav` but have a few added features:

1. Client-side rendering
2. Optional responsiveness
3. Better performance and resource usage _(see [Maximizing Performance](../how-to.md#maximizing-performance))_

Here is a screenshot (from the `bootstrap`extra) showing responsiveness at different widths:

![bootstrap_nav_js](../assets/images/bootstrap_nav_js-g.png)

## Synopsis

See [extras](../extras.md) for general usage info.

In the `pagy.rb` initializer, require the specific extra for the style you want to use:

```ruby
# you only need one of the following extras
require 'pagy/extras/bootstrap'
require 'pagy/extras/bulma'
require 'pagy/extras/foundation'
require 'pagy/extras/materialize'
require 'pagy/extras/navs'
require 'pagy/extras/semantic'
require 'pagy/extras/uikit'
```

Use the `pagy*_nav_js` helpers in any view:

```erb
<%== pagy_nav_js(@pagy) %>
<%== pagy_bootstrap_nav_js(@pagy) %>
<%== pagy_bulma_nav_js(@pagy) %>
<%== pagy_foundation_nav_js(@pagy) %>
<%== pagy_materialize_nav_js(@pagy) %>
<%== pagy_semantic_nav_js(@pagy) %>
```

## Variables

| Variable | Description                                                       | Default |
|:---------|:------------------------------------------------------------------|:--------|
| `:steps` | Hash variable to control multipe pagy `:size` at different widths | `false`   |

### :steps

The `:steps` is an optional non-core variable used by the `pagy*_nav_js` navs. If it's `false`, the `pagy*_nav_js` will behave exactly as a static `pagy*_nav` respecting the single `:size` variable, just faster and lighter. If it's defined as a hash, it allows you to control multiple pagy `:size` at different widths.

You can set the `:steps` as a hash where the keys are integers representing the widths in pixels and the values are the Pagy `:size` variables to be applied for that width.

As usual, depending on the scope of the customization, you can set the variables globally or for a single pagy instance.

For example:

```ruby
# globally
Pagy::VARS[:steps] = { 0 => [2,3,3,2], 540 => [3,5,5,3], 720 => [5,7,7,5] }

# or for a single instance
pagy, records = pagy(collection, steps: { 0 => [2,3,3,2], 540 => [3,5,5,3], 720 => [5,7,7,5] } )

# or use the :size as any static pagy*_nav
pagy, records = pagy(collection, steps: false )

```

The above statement means that from `0` to `540` pixels width, Pagy will use the `[2,3,3,2]` size, from `540` to `720` it will use the `[3,5,5,3]` size and over `720` it will use the `[5,7,7,5]` size. (Read more about the `:size` variable in the [How to control the page links](../how-to.md#controlling-the-page-links) section).

**IMPORTANT**: You can set any number of steps with any arbitrary width/size. The only requirement is that the `:steps` hash must contain always the `0` width or a `Pagy::VariableError` exception will be raised.

#### Setting the right sizes

Setting the widths and sizes can create a nice transition between widths or some apparently erratic behavior.

Here is what you should consider/ensure:

1. The pagy size changes in discrete `:steps`, defined by the width/size pairs.

2. The automatic transition from one size to another depends on the width available to the pagy nav. That width is the _internal available width_ of its container (excluding eventual horizontal padding).

3. You should ensure that - for each step - each pagy `:size` produces a nav that can be contained in its width.

4. You should ensure that the minimum internal width for the container div be equal (or a bit bigger) to the smaller positive width. (`540` pixels in our previous example).

5. If the container width snaps to specific widths in discrete steps, you should sync the quantity and widths of the pagy `:steps` to the quantity and internal widths for each discrete step of the container.

#### Javascript Caveats

In case of a window resize, the `pagy_*nav_js` elements on the page are re-rendered (when the container width changes), however if the container width changes in any other way that does not involve a window resize, then you should re-render the pagy element explicitly. For example:

```js
document.getElementById('my-pagy-nav-js').render();
```

# Javascript Combo Navs

The following `pagy*_combo_nav_js` offer an alternative pagination UI that combines navigation and pagination info in a single compact element:

- `pagy_combo_nav_js`
- `pagy_bootstrap_combo_nav_js`
- `pagy_bulma_combo_nav_js`
- `pagy_foundation_combo_nav_js`
- `pagy_materialize_combo_nav_js`
- `pagy_semantic_combo_nav_js`

They are the fastest and lightest `nav` on modern environments, recommended when you care about efficiency and server load _(see [Maximizing Performance](../how-to.md#maximizing-performance))_.

Here is a screenshot (from the `bootstrap` extra):

![bootstrap_combo_nav_js](../assets/images/bootstrap_combo_nav_js-g.png)

## Synopsis

See [extras](../extras.md) for general usage info.

In the `pagy.rb` initializer, require the specific extra for the style you want to use:

```ruby
# you only need one of the following extras
require 'pagy/extras/bootstrap'
require 'pagy/extras/bulma'
require 'pagy/extras/foundation'
require 'pagy/extras/materialize'
require 'pagy/extras/navs'
require 'pagy/extras/semantic'
require 'pagy/extras/uikit'
```

Use the `pagy*_combo_nav_js` helpers in any view:

```erb
<%== pagy_combo_nav_js(@pagy) %>
<%== pagy_bootstrap_combo_nav_js(@pagy) %>
<%== pagy_bulma_combo_nav_js(@pagy) %>
<%== pagy_foundation_combo_nav_js(@pagy) %>
<%== pagy_materialize_combo_nav_js(@pagy) %>
<%== pagy_semantic_combo_nav_js(@pagy) %>
```

## Methods

### *_nav_js(pagy, ...)

All `*_nav_js` methods can take an extra `id` argument, which is used to build the `id` attribute of the `nav` tag. Since the internal automatic id generation is based on the code line where you use the helper, you _must_ pass an explicit id if you are going to use more than one `*_js` call in the same line for the same file.

**Notice**: passing an explicit id is also a bit faster than having pagy to generate one.

# Using AJAX

If you AJAX-render any of the javascript helpers mentioned above, you should also execute `Pagy.init(container_element);` in the javascript template. Here is an example for a `pagy_bootstrap_nav_js` AJAX-render:

`pagy_remote_nav_js` controller action (notice the `link_extra` to enable AJAX):

```ruby
def pagy_remote_nav_js
  @pagy, @records = pagy(Product.all, link_extra: 'data-remote="true"')
end
```

`pagy_remote_nav_js.html.erb` template for non-AJAX render (first page-load):

```erb
<div id="container">
  <%= render partial: 'nav_js' %>
</div>
```

`_nav_js.html.erb` partial shared for AJAX and non-AJAX rendering:

```erb
<%== pagy_bootstrap_nav_js(@pagy) %>
```

`pagy_remote_nav_js.js.erb` javascript template used for AJAX:

```erb
$('#container').html("<%= j(render 'nav_js')%>");
Pagy.init(document.getElementById('container'));
```

**IMPORTANT**: The `document.getElementById('container')` argument will re-init the pagy elements just AJAX-rendered in the container div. If you miss it, it will not work.

Commit message:

[skip ci] update javascript documentation (#305)

docs/api/javascript.md, after:

---
title: Javascript
---

# Javascript

## Overview

A few helpers use javascript, and they are clearly recognizable by the `js` suffix:

- `pagy*_nav_js`
- `pagy*_combo_nav_js`
- `pagy_items_selector_js`

If you use any of them you should follow this documentation, if not, consider that Javascript is not used anywhere else, so you can skip this.

### Basic principle

All the `pagy*_js` helpers produce/render their component on the client side. The helper methods serve just a minimal HTML tag and a `JSON` tag that gets into the view. The javascript in the [pagy.js](https://github.com/ddnexus/pagy/blob/master/lib/javascripts/pagy.js) file takes care to read the data embedded in the `ISON` tag and make it work in the browser.

## Usage

Load the [pagy.js](https://github.com/ddnexus/pagy/blob/master/lib/javascripts/pagy.js) file, and run `Pagy.init()` on window-load and eventually on [AJAX-load](#using-ajax).

**CAVEATS**
- If you override any `*_js` helper, ensure to override/enforce the relative javascript function, even with a simple copy and paste. If the relation between the helper and the function changes in a next release (e.g. arguments, naming, etc.), your app will still work with your own overriding even without the need to update it.
- See also [Preventing crawlers to follow look-alike links](../how-to.md#preventing-crawlers-to-follow-look-alike-links)

### Add the oj gem

Although it's not a requirement, if you use any `*_nav_js` helper, you should consider adding the `gem 'oj'` to your Gemfile. When available, Pagy will automatically use it to boost the performance. (Notice: It does nothing for normal, non-js helpers.)

### In rails apps

#### With the asset pipeline

If your app uses the sprocket asset-pipeline, add the assets-path in the `pagy.rb` initializer:

```ruby
Rails.application.config.assets.paths << Pagy.root.join('javascripts')
```

Add the pagy javascript to the `application.js`:

```js
//= require pagy
```

Add an event listener for turbolinks:

```js
window.addEventListener("turbolinks:load", Pagy.init);
```

or a generic one if your app doesn't use turbolinks:
```js
window.addEventListener("load", Pagy.init);
```

#### With Webpacker

If your app uses Webpacker, ensure that the webpacker `erb` loader is installed:

```sh
bundle exec rails webpacker:install:erb
```

Then create a `pagy.js.erb` (in `app/javascript/packs/`) in order to render the contents of `pagy.js` and add an event listener to it (to allow the library to reinitialise when you click a new link):

```erb
<%= Pagy.root.join('javascripts', 'pagy.js').read %>
window.addEventListener("turbo:load", Pagy.init) # if using turbo-rails OR

# window.addEventListener("turbolinks:load", Pagy.init) # if turbolinks OR
# window.addEventListener("load", Pagy.init) # if using no library
```

and import it in `app/javascript/application.js`:

```js
import './pagy.js.erb'
```

**Notice**:

- You may want to use `turbolinks:load` if your app uses turbolinks despite webpacker
- or you may want just `export { Pagy }` from the `pagy.js.erb` file and import and use it somewhere else.
- You may want to expose the `Pagy` namespace, if you need it available elsewhere (e.g. in js.erb templates):
    ```js
    global.Pagy = Pagy
    ```

### In non-rails apps

Ensure the `pagy/extras/javascripts/pagy.js` script gets served with the page.

Add an event listener like:

```js
window.addEventListener('load', Pagy.init);
```

or execute the `Pagy.init()` using jQuery:

```js
$( window ).load(function() {
  Pagy.init()
});
```

# Javascript Navs

The following `pagy*_nav_js` helpers:

- `pagy_nav_js`
- `pagy_bootstrap_nav_js`
- `pagy_bulma_nav_js`
- `pagy_foundation_nav_js`
- `pagy_materialize_nav_js`
- `pagy_semantic_nav_js`

look like a normal `pagy*_nav` but have a few added features:

1. Client-side rendering
2. Optional responsiveness
3. Better performance and resource usage _(see [Maximizing Performance](../how-to.md#maximizing-performance))_

Here is a screenshot (from the `bootstrap`extra) showing responsiveness at different widths:

![bootstrap_nav_js](../assets/images/bootstrap_nav_js-g.png)

## Synopsis

See [extras](../extras.md) for general usage info.

In the `pagy.rb` initializer, require the specific extra for the style you want to use:

```ruby
# you only need one of the following extras
require 'pagy/extras/bootstrap'
require 'pagy/extras/bulma'
require 'pagy/extras/foundation'
require 'pagy/extras/materialize'
require 'pagy/extras/navs'
require 'pagy/extras/semantic'
require 'pagy/extras/uikit'
```

Use the `pagy*_nav_js` helpers in any view:

```erb
<%== pagy_nav_js(@pagy) %>
<%== pagy_bootstrap_nav_js(@pagy) %>
<%== pagy_bulma_nav_js(@pagy) %>
<%== pagy_foundation_nav_js(@pagy) %>
<%== pagy_materialize_nav_js(@pagy) %>
<%== pagy_semantic_nav_js(@pagy) %>
```

## Variables

| Variable | Description                                                       | Default |
|:---------|:------------------------------------------------------------------|:--------|
| `:steps` | Hash variable to control multipe pagy `:size` at different widths | `false`   |

### :steps

The `:steps` is an optional non-core variable used by the `pagy*_nav_js` navs. If it's `false`, the `pagy*_nav_js` will behave exactly as a static `pagy*_nav` respecting the single `:size` variable, just faster and lighter. If it's defined as a hash, it allows you to control multiple pagy `:size` at different widths.

You can set the `:steps` as a hash where the keys are integers representing the widths in pixels and the values are the Pagy `:size` variables to be applied for that width.

As usual, depending on the scope of the customization, you can set the variables globally or for a single pagy instance.

For example:

```ruby
# globally
Pagy::VARS[:steps] = { 0 => [2,3,3,2], 540 => [3,5,5,3], 720 => [5,7,7,5] }

# or for a single instance
pagy, records = pagy(collection, steps: { 0 => [2,3,3,2], 540 => [3,5,5,3], 720 => [5,7,7,5] } )

# or use the :size as any static pagy*_nav
pagy, records = pagy(collection, steps: false )

```

The above statement means that from `0` to `540` pixels width, Pagy will use the `[2,3,3,2]` size, from `540` to `720` it will use the `[3,5,5,3]` size and over `720` it will use the `[5,7,7,5]` size. (Read more about the `:size` variable in the [How to control the page links](../how-to.md#controlling-the-page-links) section).

**IMPORTANT**: You can set any number of steps with any arbitrary width/size. The only requirement is that the `:steps` hash must contain always the `0` width or a `Pagy::VariableError` exception will be raised.

#### Setting the right sizes

Setting the widths and sizes can create a nice transition between widths or some apparently erratic behavior.

Here is what you should consider/ensure:

1. The pagy size changes in discrete `:steps`, defined by the width/size pairs.

2. The automatic transition from one size to another depends on the width available to the pagy nav. That width is the _internal available width_ of its container (excluding eventual horizontal padding).

3. You should ensure that - for each step - each pagy `:size` produces a nav that can be contained in its width.

4. You should ensure that the minimum internal width for the container div be equal (or a bit bigger) to the smaller positive width. (`540` pixels in our previous example).

5. If the container width snaps to specific widths in discrete steps, you should sync the quantity and widths of the pagy `:steps` to the quantity and internal widths for each discrete step of the container.

#### Javascript Caveats

In case of a window resize, the `pagy_*nav_js` elements on the page are re-rendered (when the container width changes), however if the container width changes in any other way that does not involve a window resize, then you should re-render the pagy element explicitly. For example:

```js
document.getElementById('my-pagy-nav-js').render();
```

# Javascript Combo Navs

The following `pagy*_combo_nav_js` offer an alternative pagination UI that combines navigation and pagination info in a single compact element:

- `pagy_combo_nav_js`
- `pagy_bootstrap_combo_nav_js`
- `pagy_bulma_combo_nav_js`
- `pagy_foundation_combo_nav_js`
- `pagy_materialize_combo_nav_js`
- `pagy_semantic_combo_nav_js`

They are the fastest and lightest `nav` on modern environments, recommended when you care about efficiency and server load _(see [Maximizing Performance](../how-to.md#maximizing-performance))_.

Here is a screenshot (from the `bootstrap` extra):

![bootstrap_combo_nav_js](../assets/images/bootstrap_combo_nav_js-g.png)

## Synopsis

See [extras](../extras.md) for general usage info.

In the `pagy.rb` initializer, require the specific extra for the style you want to use:

```ruby
# you only need one of the following extras
require 'pagy/extras/bootstrap'
require 'pagy/extras/bulma'
require 'pagy/extras/foundation'
require 'pagy/extras/materialize'
require 'pagy/extras/navs'
require 'pagy/extras/semantic'
require 'pagy/extras/uikit'
```

Use the `pagy*_combo_nav_js` helpers in any view:

```erb
<%== pagy_combo_nav_js(@pagy) %>
<%== pagy_bootstrap_combo_nav_js(@pagy) %>
<%== pagy_bulma_combo_nav_js(@pagy) %>
<%== pagy_foundation_combo_nav_js(@pagy) %>
<%== pagy_materialize_combo_nav_js(@pagy) %>
<%== pagy_semantic_combo_nav_js(@pagy) %>
```

## Methods

### *_nav_js(pagy, ...)

All `*_nav_js` methods can take an extra `id` argument, which is used to build the `id` attribute of the `nav` tag. Since the internal automatic id generation is based on the code line where you use the helper, you _must_ pass an explicit id if you are going to use more than one `*_js` call in the same line for the same file.

**Notice**: passing an explicit id is also a bit faster than having pagy to generate one.

# Using AJAX

If you AJAX-render any of the javascript helpers mentioned above, you should also execute `Pagy.init(container_element);` in the javascript template. Here is an example for a `pagy_bootstrap_nav_js` AJAX-render:

`pagy_remote_nav_js` controller action (notice the `link_extra` to enable AJAX):

```ruby
def pagy_remote_nav_js
  @pagy, @records = pagy(Product.all, link_extra: 'data-remote="true"')
end
```

`pagy_remote_nav_js.html.erb` template for non-AJAX render (first page-load):

```erb
<div id="container">
  <%= render partial: 'nav_js' %>
</div>
```

`_nav_js.html.erb` partial shared for AJAX and non-AJAX rendering:

```erb
<%== pagy_bootstrap_nav_js(@pagy) %>
```

`pagy_remote_nav_js.js.erb` javascript template used for AJAX:

```erb
$('#container').html("<%= j(render 'nav_js')%>");
Pagy.init(document.getElementById('container'));
```

**IMPORTANT**: The `document.getElementById('container')` argument will re-init the pagy elements just AJAX-rendered in the container div. If you miss it, it will not work.
