docs/api/keyset.md, before:

---
title: Pagy::Keyset
category:
  - Feature
  - Class
---

# Pagy::Keyset

Implement wicked-fast keyset pagination for big data.

!!!success Pagy Keyset works with...
- `ActiveRecord::Relation` or `Sequel::Dataset` sets
- Single or multiple ordered columns
- The same order direction or any combination of mixed order directions
- The [limit](/docs/extras/limit.md), [headers](/docs/extras/headers.md) and [jsonapi](/docs/extras/jsonapi.md) extras
!!!

!!!
Concept and API are documented here, however you may prefer to use the [keyset extra](/docs/extras/keyset.md) wrapper to 
easily integrate it with your app.
!!!

[!button corners="pill" variant="success" text=":icon-play: Try it now!"](/playground.md#5-keyset-apps)

## Concept

The "Keyset" pagination, also known as "SQL Seek Method" (and often, improperly called "Cursor" pagination) is a technique
that avoids the inevitable slowness of querying pages deep into a collection (i.e. when `offset` is a big number, you're 
going to get slower queries).

This technique comes with that huge advantage and a set of limitations that makes it particularly useful for APIs and
less convenient for UIs. 

### Glossary

| Term                | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
|---------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `offset pagination` | Technique to fetch each page by changing the `offset` from the collection start.<br/>It requires two queries per page (or one if [countless](/docs/api/countless.md)): it's slow toward the end of big tables.<br/>It can be used for a rich frontend: it's the regular pagy pagination. |
| `keyset pagination` | Technique to fetch the next page starting from the `latest` fetched record in an `uniquely ordered` collection.<br/>It requires only one query per page: it's very fast regardless the table size and position (if properly indexed). It has a very limited usage in frontend.           |
| `uniquely ordered`  | When the concatenation of the values of the ordered columns is unique for each record. It is similar to a composite primary `key` for the ordered table, but dynamically based on the `keyset` columns.                                                                                  |
| `set`               | The `uniquely ordered` `ActiveRecord::Relation` or `Sequel::Dataset` collection to paginate.                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `keyset`            | The hash of column/direction pairs. Pagy extracts it from the order of the `set`.                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| `latest`            | The hash of `keyset` attributes of the `latest` fetched record (from the latest page). Pagy decodes it from the `:page` variable and uses it to filter out the records already fetched.                                                                                                  |
| `next`              | The next `page`, i.e. the encoded reference to the last record of the **current page**.                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| `page`              | The current `page`, i.e. the encoded reference to the `latest` record of the **latest page**.                                                                                                                                                                                            |

### Keyset or Offset pagination?

+++ Keyset
!!!success Use Keyset pagination with large dataset and API
You will get the fastest pagination, regardless the table size and the relative position of the page

!!!warning Limited use for UIs
Only useful when you don't need any frontend (e.g. infinite pagination)
!!!

+++ Offset
!!!success Use Offset pagination with UIs even with large datasets
- You will get all the frontend features
- You can avoid the slowness on big tables by simply limiting the `:max_pages` pages: the users would not browse thousands of
  records deep into your collection anyway 

!!!warning Limited use for APIs
Your server will suffer on big data and your API will be slower for no good reasons  
!!!
+++

## Usage

### Constraints

!!!warning With the keyset pagination technique...
- You can only paginate from one page to the next: no jumping to arbitrary pages
- The `set` must be `uniquely ordered`. Add the primary key (usually `:id`) as the last order column to be sure
- You should add the best DB index for your ordering strategy for performance. The keyset pagination would work even without
  any index, but that would defeat its purpose (performance).
  !!!

!!!warning With Pagy::Keyset...
You don't know the `previous` and the `last` page, you only know the `first` and `next` pages, for performance and simplicity

!!!success
If you want to paginate backward like: `last` ... `prev` ... `prev` ... just call `reverse_order` on your set and go forward
like: `first` ... `next` ... `next` ... It does exactly the same: just faster and simpler.
!!!

### Setup

Pagy Keyset pagination does not waste resources and code complexity checking your set and your table config at every request.

That means that you have to be sure that your set is `uniquely ordered` and that your tables have the right indexes.

**You do it once during development, and pagy will be fast at each request.**

Depending on your order requirements, here is how you set it up:

+++ No order requirements
!!!success
If you don't need any ordering, `order(:id)` is the simplest choice, because it's unique and already indexed. It is fast out 
of the box without any setup.
!!!

+++ Specific order requirements
!!!success
If you need a specific order:
- **In order to make it work**...<br/> 
    Ensure that at least one of your ordered columns is unique OR append your primary keys to your order
- **In order to make it fast**...<br/> 
    Ensure to create a unique composite DB index, including the exact same columns and ordering direction of your set
!!!
+++

### How Pagy::Keyset works

- You pass an `uniquely ordered` `set` and `Pagy::Keyset` queries the page of records.
- It keeps track of the `latest` fetched  record by encoding its `keyset` attributes into the `page` query string param of the 
  `next` URL.
- At each request, the `:page` is decoded and used to prepare a `when` clause that filters out the records already fetched, and 
  the `:limit` of requested records is pulled.
- You know that you reached the end of the collection when `pagy.next.nil?`.

## ORMs

`Pagy::Keyset` implements the subclasses for `ActiveRecord::Relation` and `Sequel::Dataset` sets and instantiate them internally:

```ruby
Pagy::Keyset.new(active_record_set)
#=> #<Pagy::Keyset::ActiveRecord:0x00000001066215e0>
 
Pagy::Keyset.new(sequel_set) 
#=> #<Pagy::Keyset::Sequel:0x00000001066545e0>
```

## Methods

==- `Pagy::Keyset.new(set, **vars)`

The constructor takes the `set`, and an optional hash of [variables](#variables).
 It returns a `Pagy::Keyset::ActiveRecord` or `Pagy::Keyset::Sequel` object (depending by the `set` class).

==- `next`

The next `page`, i.e. the encoded reference to the last record of the current page. It is `nil` for the last page.

==- `records`

The `Array` of fetched records for the current page.

===

## Variables

=== `:page`

The current page, i.e. the encoded reference to the `latest` record of the latest page. Default `nil` for the first page.

=== `:limit`

The `:limit` per page. Default `Pagy::DEFAULT[:limit]`. You can use the [limit extra](/docs/extras/limit.md) to have it
automatically assigned from the `limit` request param.

=== `:tuple_comparison`

Boolean variable that enables the tuple comparison e.g. `(brand, id) > (:brand, :id)`. It works only with the same direction 
order, hence it's ignored for mixed order. Check how your DB supports it (your `keyset` should include only `NOT NULL` columns). 
Default `nil`.

==- `:after_latest`

**Use this for DB-specific extra optimizations, if you know what you are doing.** 

If the `:after_latest` variable is set to a lambda, pagy will call it with the `set` and `latest` arguments instead of 
using its auto-generated query to filter out the records after the `latest`. It must return the filtered set. For example:

```ruby
after_latest = lambda do |set, latest|
  set.where(my_optimized_query, **latest)
end

Pagy::Keyset(set, after_latest:)
```

==- `:typecast_latest`

A lambda to override the automatic typecasting of your ORM. For example: `SQLite` stores date and times as strings, and
the query interpolation may fail composing and comparing string dates. The `typecast_latest` is an effective last-resort
option when fixing the typecasting in your models and/or the data in your storage is not possible.

```ruby
typecast_latest = lambda do |latest| 
  latest[:timestamp] = Time.parse(latest[:timestamp]).strftime('%F %T')
  latest
end

Pagy::Keyset(set, typecast_latest:)
```

===

## Attribute Readers

`limit`, `latest`, `page`, `vars`

## Troubleshooting

==- Records may repeat or be missing from successive pages

!!!danger Your set is not `uniquely ordered`

```rb
# Neither columns are unique
Product.order(:name, :production_date)
```

!!! success Append the primary key to the order

```rb
# Add the :id as the last column
Product.order(:name, :production_date, :id)
```
!!!

!!!danger ... or you have a typecasting problem
Your ORM and the storage formats don't match for one or more columns. It's a common case with `SQLite` and Time columns.
They may have been stored as strings formatted differently than the default format used by your current ORM.

!!!success
- Check the actual executed DB query and the actual stored value
- Identify the column that have a format that doesn't match with the keyset
- Fix the typecasting consistence of your ORM with your DB or consider using your custom typecasting with the 
  [:typecast_latest](#typecast-latest) variable
!!!
  
==- The order is OK, but the DB is still slow

!!!danger Most likely your index is not right, or your case needs a custom query

!!! Success

- Ensure that the composite index reflects exactly the columns sequence and order of your keyset
- Research about your specific DB features, type of index and performance for different ordering. Use SQL `EXPLAIN ANALYZE` 
  or similar tool to confirm.
- Consider using the same direction order, enabling the `:tuple_comparison`, and changing type of index (different DBs may behave 
  differently)
- Consider using your custom optimized `when` query with the [:after_latest](#after-latest) variable
!!!

===

Commit message:

Simplify the keyset API:
- Deprecate the :after_latest variable in favour of :filter_newest
- Add the keyset argument to the :filter_newest lambda
- Rename protected after_latest_query > filter_newest_query

docs/api/keyset.md, after:

---
title: Pagy::Keyset
category:
  - Feature
  - Class
---

# Pagy::Keyset

Implement wicked-fast keyset pagination for big data.

!!!success Pagy Keyset works with...
- `ActiveRecord::Relation` or `Sequel::Dataset` sets
- Single or multiple ordered columns
- The same order direction or any combination of mixed order directions
- The [limit](/docs/extras/limit.md), [headers](/docs/extras/headers.md) and [jsonapi](/docs/extras/jsonapi.md) extras
!!!

!!!
Concept and API are documented here, however you may prefer to use the [keyset extra](/docs/extras/keyset.md) wrapper to 
easily integrate it with your app.
!!!

[!button corners="pill" variant="success" text=":icon-play: Try it now!"](/playground.md#5-keyset-apps)

## Concept

The "Keyset" pagination, also known as "SQL Seek Method" (and often, improperly called "Cursor" pagination) is a technique
that avoids the inevitable slowness of querying pages deep into a collection (i.e. when `offset` is a big number, you're 
going to get slower queries).

This technique comes with that huge advantage and a set of limitations that makes it particularly useful for APIs and
less convenient for UIs. 

### Glossary

| Term                | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
|---------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `offset pagination` | Technique to fetch each page by changing the `offset` from the collection start.<br/>It requires two queries per page (or one if [countless](/docs/api/countless.md)): it's slow toward the end of big tables.<br/>It can be used for a rich frontend: it's the regular pagy pagination. |
| `keyset pagination` | Technique to fetch the next page starting from the `latest` fetched record in an `uniquely ordered` collection.<br/>It requires only one query per page: it's very fast regardless the table size and position (if properly indexed). It has a very limited usage in frontend. |
| `uniquely ordered`  | When the concatenation of the values of the ordered columns is unique for each record. It is similar to a composite primary `key` for the ordered table, but dynamically based on the `keyset` columns.                                                                  |
| `set`               | The `uniquely ordered` `ActiveRecord::Relation` or `Sequel::Dataset` collection to paginate.                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `keyset`            | The hash of column/direction pairs. Pagy extracts it from the order of the `set`.                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| `latest`            | The hash of `keyset` attributes of the `latest` fetched record (from the latest page). Pagy decodes it from the `:page` variable and uses it to filter the newest records.                                                                                               |
| `next`              | The next `page`, i.e. the encoded reference to the last record of the **current page**.                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| `page`              | The current `page`, i.e. the encoded reference to the `latest` record of the **latest page**.                                                                                                                                                                            |

### Keyset or Offset pagination?

+++ Keyset
!!!success Use Keyset pagination with large dataset and API
You will get the fastest pagination, regardless the table size and the relative position of the page

!!!warning Limited use for UIs
Only useful when you don't need any frontend (e.g. infinite pagination)
!!!

+++ Offset
!!!success Use Offset pagination with UIs even with large datasets
- You will get all the frontend features
- You can avoid the slowness on big tables by simply limiting the `:max_pages` pages: the users would not browse thousands of
  records deep into your collection anyway 

!!!warning Limited use for APIs
Your server will suffer on big data and your API will be slower for no good reasons  
!!!
+++

## Usage

### Constraints

!!!warning With the keyset pagination technique...
- You can only paginate from one page to the next: no jumping to arbitrary pages
- The `set` must be `uniquely ordered`. Add the primary key (usually `:id`) as the last order column to be sure
- You should add the best DB index for your ordering strategy for performance. The keyset pagination would work even without
  any index, but that would defeat its purpose (performance).
  !!!

!!!warning With Pagy::Keyset...
You don't know the `previous` and the `last` page, you only know the `first` and `next` pages, for performance and simplicity

!!!success
If you want to paginate backward like: `last` ... `prev` ... `prev` ... just call `reverse_order` on your set and go forward
like: `first` ... `next` ... `next` ... It does exactly the same: just faster and simpler.
!!!

### Setup

Pagy Keyset pagination does not waste resources and code complexity checking your set and your table config at every request.

That means that you have to be sure that your set is `uniquely ordered` and that your tables have the right indexes.

**You do it once during development, and pagy will be fast at each request.**

Depending on your order requirements, here is how you set it up:

+++ No order requirements
!!!success
If you don't need any ordering, `order(:id)` is the simplest choice, because it's unique and already indexed. It is fast out 
of the box without any setup.
!!!

+++ Specific order requirements
!!!success
If you need a specific order:
- **In order to make it work**...<br/> 
    Ensure that at least one of your ordered columns is unique OR append your primary keys to your order
- **In order to make it fast**...<br/> 
    Ensure to create a unique composite DB index, including the exact same columns and ordering direction of your set
!!!
+++

### How Pagy::Keyset works

- You pass an `uniquely ordered` `set` and `Pagy::Keyset` queries the page of records.
- It keeps track of the `latest` fetched  record by encoding its `keyset` attributes into the `page` query string param of the 
  `next` URL.
- At each request, the `:page` is decoded and used to prepare a `when` clause that filters the newest records, and 
  the `:limit` of records is pulled.
- You know that you reached the end of the collection when `pagy.next.nil?`.

## ORMs

`Pagy::Keyset` implements the subclasses for `ActiveRecord::Relation` and `Sequel::Dataset` sets and instantiate them internally:

```ruby
Pagy::Keyset.new(active_record_set)
#=> #<Pagy::Keyset::ActiveRecord:0x00000001066215e0>
 
Pagy::Keyset.new(sequel_set) 
#=> #<Pagy::Keyset::Sequel:0x00000001066545e0>
```

## Methods

==- `Pagy::Keyset.new(set, **vars)`

The constructor takes the `set`, and an optional hash of [variables](#variables).
 It returns a `Pagy::Keyset::ActiveRecord` or `Pagy::Keyset::Sequel` object (depending by the `set` class).

==- `next`

The next `page`, i.e. the encoded reference to the last record of the current page. It is `nil` for the last page.

==- `records`

The `Array` of fetched records for the current page.

===

## Variables

=== `:page`

The current page, i.e. the encoded reference to the `latest` record of the latest page. Default `nil` for the first page.

=== `:limit`

The `:limit` per page. Default `Pagy::DEFAULT[:limit]`. You can use the [limit extra](/docs/extras/limit.md) to have it
automatically assigned from the `limit` request param.

=== `:tuple_comparison`

Boolean variable that enables the tuple comparison e.g. `(brand, id) > (:brand, :id)`. It works only with the same direction 
order, hence it's ignored for mixed order. Check how your DB supports it (your `keyset` should include only `NOT NULL` columns). 
Default `nil`.

==- `:filter_newest`

**Use this for DB-specific extra optimizations, if you know what you are doing.** 

If the `:filter_newest` variable is set to a lambda, pagy will call it with the `set`, `latest` and `keyset` arguments instead of 
using its auto-generated query to filter the newest records (after the `latest`). It must return the filtered set. For example:

```ruby
filter_newest = lambda do |set, latest, keyset|
  set.where(my_optimized_query(keyset), **latest)
end

Pagy::Keyset(set, filter_newest:)
```

==- `:typecast_latest`

A lambda to override the automatic typecasting of your ORM. For example: `SQLite` stores date and times as strings, and
the query interpolation may fail composing and comparing string dates. The `typecast_latest` is an effective last-resort
option when fixing the typecasting in your models and/or the data in your storage is not possible.

```ruby
typecast_latest = lambda do |latest| 
  latest[:timestamp] = Time.parse(latest[:timestamp]).strftime('%F %T')
  latest
end

Pagy::Keyset(set, typecast_latest:)
```

===

## Attribute Readers

`limit`, `latest`, `page`, `vars`

## Troubleshooting

==- Records may repeat or be missing from successive pages

!!!danger Your set is not `uniquely ordered`

```rb
# Neither columns are unique
Product.order(:name, :production_date)
```

!!! success Append the primary key to the order

```rb
# Add the :id as the last column
Product.order(:name, :production_date, :id)
```
!!!

!!!danger ... or you have a typecasting problem
Your ORM and the storage formats don't match for one or more columns. It's a common case with `SQLite` and Time columns.
They may have been stored as strings formatted differently than the default format used by your current ORM.

!!!success
- Check the actual executed DB query and the actual stored value
- Identify the column that have a format that doesn't match with the keyset
- Fix the typecasting consistence of your ORM with your DB or consider using your custom typecasting with the 
  [:typecast_latest](#typecast-latest) variable
!!!
  
==- The order is OK, but the DB is still slow

!!!danger Most likely your index is not right, or your case needs a custom query

!!! Success

- Ensure that the composite index reflects exactly the columns sequence and order of your keyset
- Research about your specific DB features, type of index and performance for different ordering. Use SQL `EXPLAIN ANALYZE` 
  or similar tool to confirm.
- Consider using the same direction order, enabling the `:tuple_comparison`, and changing type of index (different DBs may behave 
  differently)
- Consider using your custom optimized `when` query with the [:filter_newest](#filter-newest) variable
!!!

===
