docs/resources/i18n.md, before:

---
label: I18n
icon: globe
order: 70
---

#

## Internationalization

---

Pagy handles string translation and pluralization using its own efficient i18n implementation.

The localization is not needed only by the calendar [localization](https://ddnexus.github.io/pagy/toolbox/paginators/calendar/#localization) and only for non `en` locales.

!!!primary

`Pagy::I18n.translate` is approximately 18 times faster and consumes about 10 times less memory compared to the standard `I18n.translate` provided by the `i18n` gem!
!!!

All Pagy strings are stored in dictionary files within its [locales](https://github.com/ddnexus/pagy/blob/master/gem/locales). These files adopt the same structure as the standard locale files for the `i18n` gem, allowing you to use them seamlessly with both systems.

==- Dictionary file example

:::code source="../gem/locales/en.yml" title="en.yml":::

==- Customizing dictionaries

!!!warning IMPORTANT

If you use `Pagy::I18n`, name your custom dictionary as `<locale>.yml`.

!!!

Place your custom dictionaries in a directory and add its path to the I18n pathnames. Uncomment or modify the relevant line in the [pagy.rb initializer](initializer.md).

```ruby
# Example for Rails:
Pagy::I18n.pathnames << Rails.root.join('config/locales/pagy')
```

==- Configuration for multilingual applications

The default `Pagy::I18n.locale` is `'en'`.

For applications with multiple locales, you must set the `Pagy::I18n.locale` for each request. For instance, in a Rails application, you can implement this as follows:

```ruby Controller
before_action { Pagy::I18n.locale = params[:locale] }
```

==- Using the I18n gem

!!!warning Prefer Pagy::I18n

Pagy::I18n functions seamlessly and independently of the `i18n` gem, offering significantly better performance.

!!!success

Use the standard I18n in your app and `Pagy::I18n` for pagy.
!!!

If you absolutely need to use the `i18n` gem for translating Pagy, you can simply uncomment the following line in your [pagy.js initializer](initializer.md):

```ruby
Pagy.translate_with_the_slower_i18n_gem!
```

Once enabled, you will no longer need to configure `Pagy::I18n.locale`, as the global `I18n.locale` will automatically handle it.

==- Contributing a language

See [Create a new Dictionary](../guides/how-to#create-a-new-i18n-dictionary)

===

Commit message:

💎 Add fallback to 'en' for unknown locale. Implement #868.

docs/resources/i18n.md, after:

---
label: I18n
icon: globe
order: 70
---

#

## Internationalization

---

Pagy handles string translation and pluralization using its own efficient i18n implementation.

The localization is not needed only by the calendar [localization](https://ddnexus.github.io/pagy/toolbox/paginators/calendar/#localization) and only for non `en` locales.

!!!primary

`Pagy::I18n.translate` is approximately 18 times faster and consumes about 10 times less memory compared to the standard `I18n.translate` provided by the `i18n` gem!
!!!

All Pagy strings are stored in dictionary files within its [locales](https://github.com/ddnexus/pagy/blob/master/gem/locales). These files adopt the same structure as the standard locale files for the `i18n` gem, allowing you to use them seamlessly with both systems.

==- Dictionary file example

:::code source="../gem/locales/en.yml" title="en.yml":::

==- Customizing dictionaries

!!!warning IMPORTANT

If you use `Pagy::I18n`, name your custom dictionary as `<locale>.yml`.

!!!

Place your custom dictionaries in a directory and add its path to the I18n pathnames. Uncomment or modify the relevant line in the [pagy.rb initializer](initializer.md).

```ruby
# Example for Rails:
Pagy::I18n.pathnames << Rails.root.join('config/locales/pagy')
```

==- Configuration for multilingual applications

The default `Pagy::I18n.locale` is `'en'`, used also for unknown locales.

For applications with multiple locales, you must set the `Pagy::I18n.locale` for each request. For instance, in a Rails application, you can implement this as follows:

```ruby Controller
before_action { Pagy::I18n.locale = params[:locale] }
```

==- Using the I18n gem

!!!warning Prefer Pagy::I18n

Pagy::I18n functions seamlessly and independently of the `i18n` gem, offering significantly better performance.

!!!success

Use the standard I18n in your app and `Pagy::I18n` for pagy.
!!!

If you absolutely need to use the `i18n` gem for translating Pagy, you can simply uncomment the following line in your [pagy.js initializer](initializer.md):

```ruby
Pagy.translate_with_the_slower_i18n_gem!
```

Once enabled, you will no longer need to configure `Pagy::I18n.locale`, as the global `I18n.locale` will automatically handle it.

==- Contributing a language

See [Create a new Dictionary](../guides/how-to#create-a-new-i18n-dictionary)

===
